README.md, before:

# Setting up your computer

In order to run OARS code, you need the following things setup on your computer:

1. [Ubuntu](http://howtoubuntu.org/how-to-install-ubuntu-14-04-trusty-tahr) (14.04 highly recommended)
    * test by running `lsb_release -a` in a terminal
2. [ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) (indigo recommended)
    * test by running `rosversion -d` in a terminal
3. A properly-configured [catkin workspace](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/Tutorials/create_a_workspace)
    * test by running `echo $ROS_PACKAGE_PATH` in a terminal. 
The result should include */home/yourname/catkin_ws/src*
    * If this fails, go to [Appendix A](#appendix-a-getting-your-catkin_ws-setup) to debug and fix it.
4. [git](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-ubuntu-14-04#how-to-install-git-with-apt) (any version fine)
    * test by running `git --version` in a terminal
5. [V-REP](http://www.coppeliarobotics.com/downloads.html) (educational version, ≥3.3.2)
    * test by running `a command that is yet to be determined` in a terminal
6. the [oars-roboboat](https://github.com/olin-robotic-sailing/oars-roboboat) git repository in your catkin_ws/src folder
    * test by running `roscd oars_pkg` in a terminal
7. All of the dependencies of the oars packages
* test by running 
```
rosdep update
rosdep check oars_pkg pool_server oars_arbiter
```

* fix by running 
```
sudo apt-get update
rosdep install oars_pkg pool_server oars_arbiter
```

# Running the Code

## Tugboat

1. Turn the tugboat on

    * The Raspberry Pi should be powered from a USB power bank

2. Connect to the tugboat via ssh

    * Connect to the `OLIN-ROBOTICS` wifi network (password `R0B0TS-RULE`)

    * Visit [https://7a7b657d70.dataplicity.io/](https://7a7b657d70.dataplicity.io/) and find the "inet addr" starting with 192.168.\**.\**

    * In a terminal, connect to the Raspberry Pi using the command 
`ssh pi@192.168.**.**` (with the IP address from above)

        1. The password is `raspberry`

3. Update the code on the tugboat to match what you want to test

    * *in the ssh session*

    * `roscd oars_pkg`

    * `git checkout master` (or whatever branch you are working on)

    * `git pull`

4. Run the code on the boat computer

    * In one tab: `roscore`

    * In the other tab: `roslaunch oars_pkg bringup.launch`

5. Connect your computer as a joystick

* Plug in the controller

* Tell your computer that a ROS master is running on the tugboat: 
`export ROS_MASTER_URI=http://<tugboat_ip_address>:11311`

* Tell ROS what your IP address is:
`export ROS_IP=<your_ip_address>`

* Run joystick node: `rosrun joy joy_node`

    2. If it doesn’t find the joystick, check that you can see it as `/dev/input/js#`

    3. If `js#` isn’t `js0`: `rosrun joy joy_node _dev:=/dev/input/js#`




# Appendix A: Getting your catkin_ws setup

## Step 1: Do you have a catkin_ws folder?

In a terminal type `cd ~/catkin_ws/src`

* If it works, you have a catkin_ws folder already, continue to Step 2

* If it doesn’t work, follow the instructions [here](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/Tutorials/create_a_workspace), then continue to Step 2

## Step 2: Make your catkin_ws folder the default ROS location

In a terminal, type `gedit ~/.bashrc`

In the resulting text file, add the following two lines to the bottom of the file, if they aren’t there:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash</td>
  </tr>
</table>


This file is loaded every time you open a terminal, so it stores the "default" location of your catkin workspace. Any code in the ~/catkin_ws/src directory will now be useable by ROS (once you close and reopen your terminal)

Commit message:

added a few sentences about who we are

README.md, after:

# Olin Aquatic Robotic Systems

Git repository for the Olin Aquatic Robotic Systems team. Learn how to do things in our [wiki](https://github.com/olin-robotic-sailing/oars-roboboat/wiki).

For information about our team, blog updates and more, visit our website at [olinaquabots.com](olinaquabots.com).

# Setting up your computer

In order to run OARS code, you need the following things setup on your computer:

1. [Ubuntu](http://howtoubuntu.org/how-to-install-ubuntu-14-04-trusty-tahr) (14.04 highly recommended)
    * test by running `lsb_release -a` in a terminal
2. [ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/indigo/Installation/Ubuntu) (indigo recommended)
    * test by running `rosversion -d` in a terminal
3. A properly-configured [catkin workspace](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/Tutorials/create_a_workspace)
    * test by running `echo $ROS_PACKAGE_PATH` in a terminal. 
The result should include */home/yourname/catkin_ws/src*
    * If this fails, go to [Appendix A](#appendix-a-getting-your-catkin_ws-setup) to debug and fix it.
4. [git](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-ubuntu-14-04#how-to-install-git-with-apt) (any version fine)
    * test by running `git --version` in a terminal
5. [V-REP](http://www.coppeliarobotics.com/downloads.html) (educational version, ≥3.3.2)
    * test by running `a command that is yet to be determined` in a terminal
6. the [oars-roboboat](https://github.com/olin-robotic-sailing/oars-roboboat) git repository in your catkin_ws/src folder
    * test by running `roscd oars_pkg` in a terminal
7. All of the dependencies of the oars packages
* test by running 
```
rosdep update
rosdep check oars_pkg pool_server oars_arbiter
```

* fix by running 
```
sudo apt-get update
rosdep install oars_pkg pool_server oars_arbiter
```

# Running the Code

## Tugboat

1. Turn the tugboat on

    * The Raspberry Pi should be powered from a USB power bank

2. Connect to the tugboat via ssh

    * Connect to the `OLIN-ROBOTICS` wifi network (password `R0B0TS-RULE`)

    * Visit [https://7a7b657d70.dataplicity.io/](https://7a7b657d70.dataplicity.io/) and find the "inet addr" starting with 192.168.\**.\**

    * In a terminal, connect to the Raspberry Pi using the command 
`ssh pi@192.168.**.**` (with the IP address from above)

        1. The password is `raspberry`

3. Update the code on the tugboat to match what you want to test

    * *in the ssh session*

    * `roscd oars_pkg`

    * `git checkout master` (or whatever branch you are working on)

    * `git pull`

4. Run the code on the boat computer

    * In one tab: `roscore`

    * In the other tab: `roslaunch oars_pkg bringup.launch`

5. Connect your computer as a joystick

* Plug in the controller

* Tell your computer that a ROS master is running on the tugboat: 
`export ROS_MASTER_URI=http://<tugboat_ip_address>:11311`

* Tell ROS what your IP address is:
`export ROS_IP=<your_ip_address>`

* Run joystick node: `rosrun joy joy_node`

    2. If it doesn’t find the joystick, check that you can see it as `/dev/input/js#`

    3. If `js#` isn’t `js0`: `rosrun joy joy_node _dev:=/dev/input/js#`




# Appendix A: Getting your catkin_ws setup

## Step 1: Do you have a catkin_ws folder?

In a terminal type `cd ~/catkin_ws/src`

* If it works, you have a catkin_ws folder already, continue to Step 2

* If it doesn’t work, follow the instructions [here](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/Tutorials/create_a_workspace), then continue to Step 2

## Step 2: Make your catkin_ws folder the default ROS location

In a terminal, type `gedit ~/.bashrc`

In the resulting text file, add the following two lines to the bottom of the file, if they aren’t there:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>source /opt/ros/indigo/setup.bash
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash</td>
  </tr>
</table>


This file is loaded every time you open a terminal, so it stores the "default" location of your catkin workspace. Any code in the ~/catkin_ws/src directory will now be useable by ROS (once you close and reopen your terminal)
